    # HANGMAN
    #### Video Demo:  <https://youtu.be/lEnoqXw6TCQ>
    #### Description:
    For CS50's Introduction to Programming with Python's Final Project, I coded a hangman game. The game runs in the terminal where it allows different difficulties and hints, it recreates the famous drawing when the guess is incorrect, and it implements error prevention to allow the user to play the game correctly. The program mostly runs inside of the hangman function, but it uses the **main** function to connect the **hangman** function to the **choose_word** function. The **main** function first prints an introduction string, calls for the input of a number of letters, and then calls the **choose_word** (passing it the input) and passes the return value directly to the **hangman** function, ensuring that no matter what, the word being guessed is the same throughout the function.
    In the **choose_word function**, the str value of the input is assigned to the variable _name_file_ inside of a f-string. It allows me to modify it to match the name of the files, each classified with a specific amount of letters, letting the user to play with whatever difficulty they want. Then, the program opens said file for reading and assigns the entirety of the file to the variable _lines_. Afterwards, the variable _word_ is being assigned a random, stripped, and lowered word in _lines_. Finally, the function returns _word_. However, as it is in a try and except function, if any errors are raised, then the program quits under the pretext that the input was “not a level”.
    In the **hangman** function, the lists _guessed_letters_ and _hint_list_ and the integer attempts are initialized. A while loop is then called, allowing for the initialization of the values to only be when the program is run. The while loop runs until the amount of attempts is no longer less than 7 (7 or higher). The variable _current_display_ is assigned the return value of the function **display_word** passed with the arguments _word_ and _guessed_letters_. The function then prints the _current_display_ and the _guessed_letters_ variables using f-string. Finally, as part of the intro to the while loop, it asks the user for an input of their guess, which is assigned to the variable _guess_.
    In the function **display_word**, the variable _display_ is initialized. Then, a for loop is called, creating a variable _letter_ and running for each letter in _word_. Then, an if statement is run asking if the _letter_ is in _guessed_letters_. If it returns true, then it adds the letter (operator overflow) to the string _display_. If false, however, it adds the string “_”. After going through each and every letter, it returns the _display_ variable to be used in the first part of the while loop of **hangman**.
    In the **hint** function, a forever while loop is called (while true). It sets a random letter of _word_ to the variable _h_ and then checks whether it exists inside of the variable _gl_ (interpretation of _guessed_letters_). If true, then it continues, restarting the while loop. If false, then it returns _h_.
    In the second part of the while loop of the **hangman** function, there is an if statement. It asks whether the value of _guess_ is “hint”. If it is not, then it moves on. However, if it is, then it appends to _hint_list_ the value of **hint** when passed _word_ and _guessed_letter_ as arguments. It then asks an if statement of whether the length of _hint_list_ is greater than one. If it is, it denies the hint. If not, it then checks whether there is only one letter to guess left. If true, then it also denies the hint. Else, it sets _guess_ to the first value of _hint_list_. Then another if statement is called. If _guess_ is the same as  _word_, then it checks if the user’s attempts are 0. If it is, it prints a different win message, but no matter what, if the user’s guess is the same as the word to be guessed, then the user wins. It also checks if the length of the guess is not one, if the guess is not a letter, or if the guess was already guessed before. This is part of the fail safe to ensure that the user enters a single alphabetical digit that was not guessed before. If _guess_ passes all the checks, then it gets appended to _guessed_letters_.
    In the **fail** function, the variable _stages_ is assigned a list of all parts of the famous drawing when the guess is wrong. The variable _stage_ is assigned _stages_ with an index of the amount of attempts minus one. _stage_ is then returned.
    For the final part of **hangman**, an if statement is called to check if _guess_ is in _word_. If not, then it calls **fail** and prints it passing the amount of _attempts_. Finally, it checks whether the string “_” was present is _word_. If true, it once again checks if the amount of attempts is equal to 0, and then overall announces the user win before exiting the system. However, if the while loop ends before the program quits, It checks if the string “_” is in _word_, and if true, it exists because there were no more attempts.
    Overall, the program runs well and I have not managed to break it thanks to the fail safe included. Thanks to the added functionality with **choose_word** and **hint**, the program is a lot more fun and user_friendly. It also opened up possibilities to rewrite the rules of the game and to make it even better than before.



